docs: trigger syntax (#2023)
GreptimeTeam/docs: docs/enterprise/trigger/syntax.md

---
keywords: [Trigger, Alert, GreptimeDB Enterprise, Syntax]

> description: This document provides more details about the greptimedb trigger.

Author: ```suggestion
description: This document provides more details about the GreptimeDB Trigger.
```

---
keywords: [Trigger, Alert, GreptimeDB Enterprise, Syntax]
description: This document provides more details about the GreptimeDB Trigger.
---

# Syntax

## Create Trigger

The syntax for creating a Trigger:

```sql
CREATE TRIGGER [IF NOT EXISTS] <trigger_name>
        ON (<query_expression>) EVERY <interval_expression>
        [LABELS (<label_name>=<label_val>, ...)]
        [ANNOTATIONS (<annotation_name>=<annotation_val>, ...)]
        NOTIFY (
                WEBHOOK <notify_name1> URL '<url1>' [WITH (<parameter1>=<value1>, ...)],
                WEBHOOK <notify_name2> URL '<url2>' [WITH (<parameter2>=<value2>, ...)]
        );
```

### Trigger name

- Trigger name: the unique identifier of the Trigger at the catalog level.

> - IF NOT EXISTS: prevents an error from occurring if the Trigger exists.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- IF NOT EXISTS: prevent errors that would occur if the Trigger being created.
```

- Extract the other columns to `ANNOTATIONS`. The key of annotations is the
    column name.

For example, the query expression is as follows:

```sql
SELECT collect as label_collector, host as label_host, val
    FROM host_load1
    WHERE val > 10 and ts >= now() - '1 minutes'::INTERVAL
```

Assume the query result is not empty and looks like this:

| label_collector  | label_host | val |
|------------------|------------|-----|
| collector1       | host1      | 12  |
| collector2       | host2      | 15  |

This will generate two notifications.

The first notification will have the following labels and annotations:

- Labels:
    - collector: collector1
    - host: host1
    - the labels defined in the `LABELS` clause
- Annotations:
    - val: 12
    - the annotations defined in the `ANNOTATIONS` clause

The second notification will have the following labels and annotations:

- Labels:
    - collector: collector2
    - host: host2
    - the labels defined in the `LABELS` clause
- Annotations:
    - val: 15
    - the annotations defined in the `ANNOTATIONS` clause
        
#### Interval expression

It indicates how often the query is executed. e.g., `'5 minute'::INTERVAL`,

> `'1 hour'::INTERVAL` etc. For more details, see [interval-type](../../reference/sql/data-types.md#interval-type).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`'1 hour'::INTERVAL` etc. For more details, see [interval-type](/reference/sql/data-types.md#interval-type).
```
